feat(exclusive_route transform): implements new transform (#21707)
vectordotdev/vector: website/content/en/highlights/2024-11-07-exclusive_route.md

---
date: "2024-11-07"
title: "Exclusive Route Transform"
description: "Introducing the exclusive route transform"

> authors: [ "binarylogic" ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authors: [ "pront" ]
```

Author: whoops, copy-pasted from another highlight.

pr_numbers: [ 21707 ]
release: "0.43.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: "new feature"
  domains: [ "transforms" ]
---

The `ExclusiveRoute` transform splits an event stream into unique sub-streams based on user-defined conditions. Each event will only be

> routed to a single stream. This transforms complements the existing [Route transform][docs.transforms.route].

Reviewer: I was thinking, for this, that we'd write a more complete highlight showing usage, how it differs from `route`, etc. The current highlight doesn't contain much more than the release changelog will so I don't think it is useful to add in its current form. We could delete it if you plan to write a separate blog post.

Author: Let's keep it, I will add an example config and a picture. And then in the blog post we can do the same for `route` and add a section explaining the differences.

---
date: "2024-11-07"
title: "Exclusive Route Transform"
description: "Introducing the exclusive route transform"
authors: [ "pront" ]
pr_numbers: [ 21707 ]
release: "0.43.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: "new feature"
  domains: [ "transforms" ]
---

### Functionality

> The `ExclusiveRoute` transform splits an event stream into unique sub-streams based on user-defined conditions. Each event will only be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Exclusive Route transform splits an event stream into unique sub-streams based on user-defined conditions. Each event will only be
```
